<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V: Reginald Morton</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Reginald Morton</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>We will now go back to Hoppet Hall and its inhabitants. When the old squire died he left by his will Hoppet Hall and certain other houses in Dillsborough, which was all that he could leave, to his grandson Reginald Morton. Then there arose a question whether this property also was not entailed. The former <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Masters, and our friend of the present day, had been quite certain of the squire’s power to do what he liked with it; but others had been equally certain on the other side, and there had been a lawsuit. During that time Reginald Morton had been forced to live on a very small allowance. His aunt, Lady Ushant, had done what little she could for him, but it had been felt to be impossible that he should remain at Bragton, which was the property of the cousin who was at law with him. From the moment of his birth the Honourable <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Morton, who was also his aunt by marriage, had been his bitter enemy. He was the son of an innkeeper’s daughter, and according to her theory of life, should never even have been noticed by the real Mortons. And this honourable old lady was almost equally adverse to Lady Ushant, whose husband had simply been a knight, and who had left nothing behind him. Thus Reginald Morton had been friendless since his grandfather died, and had lived in Germany, nobody quite knew how. During the entire period of this lawsuit Hoppet Hall had remained untenanted.</p>
			<p>When the property was finally declared to belong to Reginald Morton, the Hall, before it could be used, required considerable repair. But there was other property. The Bush Inn belonged to Reginald Morton, as did the house in which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Masters lived, and sundry other smaller tenements in the vicinity. There was an income from these of about five hundred pounds a year. Reginald, who was then nearly thirty years of age, came over to England, and stayed for a month or two at Bragton with his aunt, to the infinite chagrin of the old dowager. The management of the town property was entrusted to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Masters, and Hoppet Hall was repaired. At this period <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mainwaring had just come to Dillsborough, and having a wife with some money and perhaps quite as much pretension, had found the rectory too small, and had taken the Hall on a lease for seven years. When this was arranged Reginald Morton again went to Germany, and did not return till the lease had run out. By that time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mainwaring, having spent a little money, found that the rectory would be large enough for his small family. Then the Hall was again untenanted for awhile, till, quite suddenly, Reginald Morton returned to Dillsborough, and took up his permanent residence in his own house.</p>
			<p>It soon became known that the newcomer would not add much to the gaiety of the place. The only people whom he knew in Dillsborough were his own tenants, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Runciman and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Masters, and the attorney’s eldest daughter. During those months which he had spent with Lady Ushant at Bragton, Mary had been living there, then a child of twelve years old; and, as a child, had become his fast friend. With his aunt he had continually corresponded, and partly at her instigation, and partly from feelings of his own, he had at once gone to the attorney’s house. This was now two years since, and he had found in his old playmate a beautiful young woman, in his opinion very unlike the people with whom she lived. For the first twelvemonths he saw her occasionally⁠—though not indeed very often. Once or twice he had drunk tea at the attorney’s house, on which occasions the drawing-room upstairs had been almost as grand as it was uncomfortable. Then the attentions of Larry Twentyman began to make themselves visible, infinitely to Reginald Morton’s disgust. Up to that time he had no idea of falling in love with the girl himself. Since he had begun to think on such subjects at all he had made up his mind that he would not marry. He was almost the more proud of his birth by his father’s side, because he had been made to hear so much of his mother’s low position. He had told himself a hundred times that under no circumstances could he marry any other than a lady of good birth. But his own fortune was small, and he knew himself well enough to be sure that he would not marry for money. He was now nearly forty years of age and had never yet been thrown into the society of anyone that had attracted him. He was sure that he would not marry. And yet when he saw that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Twentyman was made much of and flattered by the whole Masters family, apparently because he was regarded as an eligible husband for Mary, Reginald Morton was not only disgusted, but personally offended. Being a most unreasonable man he conceived a bitter dislike to poor Larry, who, at any rate, was truly in love, and was not looking too high in desiring to marry the portionless daughter of the attorney. But Morton thought that the man ought to be kicked and horsewhipped, or, at any rate, banished into some speechless exile for his presumption.</p>
			<p>With <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Runciman he had dealings, and in some sort friendship. There were two meadows attached to Hoppet Hall⁠—fields lying close to the town, which were very suitable for the landlord’s purposes. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mainwaring had held them in his own hands, taking them up from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Runciman, who had occupied them while the house was untenanted, in a manner which induced <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Runciman to feel that it was useless to go to church to hear such sermons as those preached by the rector. But Morton had restored the fields, giving them rent free, on condition that he should be supplied with milk and butter. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Runciman, no doubt, had the best of the bargain, as he generally had in all bargains; but he was a man who liked to be generous when generously treated. Consequently he almost overdid his neighbour with butter and cream, and occasionally sent in quarters of lamb and sweetbreads to make up the weight. I don’t know that the offerings were particularly valued; but friendship was engendered. Runciman, too, had his grounds for quarrelling with those who had taken up the management of the Bragton property after the squire’s death, and had his own antipathy to the Honourable <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Morton and her grandson, the Secretary of Legation. When the lawsuit was going on he had been altogether on Reginald Morton’s side. It was an affair of sides, and quite natural that Runciman and the attorney should be friendly with the newcomer at Hoppet Hall, though there were very few points of personal sympathy between them.</p>
			<p>Reginald Morton was no sportsman, nor was he at all likely to become a member of the Dillsborough Club. It was currently reported of him in the town that he had never sat on a horse or fired off a gun. As he had been brought up as a boy by the old squire this was probably an exaggeration, but it is certain that at this period of his life he had given up any aptitudes in that direction for which his early training might have suited him. He had brought back with him to Hoppet Hall many cases of books which the ignorance of Dillsborough had magnified into an enormous library, and he was certainly a sedentary, reading man. There was already a report in the town that he was engaged in some stupendous literary work, and the men and women generally looked upon him as a disagreeable marvel of learning. Dillsborough of itself was not bookish, and would have regarded anyone known to have written an article in a magazine almost as a phenomenon.</p>
			<p>He seldom went to church, much to the sorrow of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Surtees, who ventured to call at the house and remonstrate with him. He never called again. And though it was the habit of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Surtees’ life to speak as little ill as possible of anyone, he was not able to say any good of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mainwaring, who would never have troubled himself though his parishioner had not entered a place of worship once in a twelvemonth, did say many severe things against his former landlord. He hated people who were unsocial and averse to dining out, and who departed from the ways of living common among English country gentlemen. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Mainwaring was, upon the whole, prepared to take the other side.</p>
			<p>Reginald Morton, though he was now nearly forty, was a young-looking, handsome man, with fair hair, cut short, and a light beard, which was always clipped. Though his mother had been an innkeeper’s daughter in Montreal he had the Morton blue eyes and the handsome well-cut Morton nose. He was nearly six feet high, and strongly made, and was known to be a much finer man than the Secretary of Legation, who was rather small, and supposed to be not very robust.</p>
			<p>Our lonely man was a great walker, and had investigated every lane and pathway, and almost every hedge within ten miles of Dillsborough before he had resided there two years; but his favourite rambles were all in the neighbourhood of Bragton. As there was no one living in the house⁠—no one but the old housekeeper who had lived there always⁠—he was able to wander about the place as he pleased. On the Tuesday afternoon, after the meeting of the Dillsborough Club which has been recorded, he was seated, about three o’clock, on the rail of the footbridge over the Dill, with a long German pipe hanging from his mouth. He was noted throughout the whole country for this pipe, or for others like it, such a one usually being in his mouth as he wandered about. The amount of tobacco which he had smoked since his return to these parts, exactly in that spot, was considerable, for there he might have been found at some period of the afternoon at least three times a week. He would sit on this rail for half an hour looking down at the sluggish waters of the little river, rolling the smoke out of his mouth at long intervals, and thinking perhaps of the great book which he was supposed to be writing. As he sat there now, he suddenly heard voices and laughter, and presently three girls came round the corner of the hedge, which, at this spot, hid the Dillsborough path⁠—and he saw the attorney’s three daughters.</p>
			<p>“It’s <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton,” said Dolly in a whisper.</p>
			<p>“He’s always walking about Bragton,” said Kate in another whisper. “Tony Tuppett says that he’s the Bragton ghost.”</p>
			<p>“Kate,” said Mary, also in a low voice, “you shouldn’t talk so much about what you hear from Tony Tuppett.”</p>
			<p>“Bosh!” said Kate, who knew that she could not be scolded in the presence of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton.</p>
			<p>He came forward and shook hands with them all, and took off his hat to Mary. “You’ve walked a long way, Miss Masters,” he said.</p>
			<p>“We don’t think it far. I like sometimes to come and look at the old place.”</p>
			<p>“And so do I. I wonder whether you remember how often I’ve sat you on this rail and threatened to throw you into the river?”</p>
			<p>“I remember very well that you did threaten me once, and that I almost believed that you would throw me in.”</p>
			<p>“What had she done that was naughty, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton?” asked Kate.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think she ever did anything naughty in those days. I don’t know whether she has changed for the worse since.”</p>
			<p>“Mary is never naughty now,” said Dolly. “Kate and I are naughty, and it’s very much better fun than being good.”</p>
			<p>“The world has found out that long ago, Miss Dolly; only the world is not quite so candid in owning it as you are. Will you come and walk round the house, Miss Masters? I never go in, but I have no scruples about the paths and park.”</p>
			<p>At the end of the bridge leading into the shrubbery there was a stile, high indeed, but made commodiously with steps, almost like a double staircase, so that ladies could pass it without trouble. Mary had given her assent to the proposed walk, and was in the act of putting out her hand to be helped over the stile, when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Twentyman appeared at the other side of it.</p>
			<p>“If here isn’t Larry!” said Kate.</p>
			<p>Morton’s face turned as black as thunder, but he immediately went back across the bridge, leading Mary with him. The other girls, who had followed him on to the bridge, had of course to go back also. Mary was made very unhappy by the meeting. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton would of course think that it had been planned, whereas by Mary herself it had been altogether unexpected. Kate, when the bridge was free, rushed over it and whispered something to Larry. The meeting had indeed been planned between her and Dolly and the lover, and this special walk had been taken at the request of the two younger girls.</p>
			<p>Morton stood stock still, as though he expected that Twentyman would pass by. Larry hurried over the bridge, feeling sure that the meeting with Morton had been accidental and thinking that he would pass on towards the house.</p>
			<p>Larry was not at all ashamed of his purpose, nor was he inclined to give way and pass on. He came up boldly to his love, and shook hands with her with a pleasant smile. “If you are walking back to Dillsborough,” he said, “maybe you’ll let me go a little way with you?”</p>
			<p>“I was going round the house with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morton,” she said timidly.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps I can join you?” said he, bobbing his head at the other man.</p>
			<p>“If you intended to walk back with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Twentyman⁠—,” began Morton.</p>
			<p>“But I didn’t,” said the poor girl, who in truth understood more of it all than did either of the two men. “I didn’t expect him, and I didn’t expect you. It’s a pity I can’t go both ways, isn’t it?” she added, attempting to appear cheerful.</p>
			<p>“Come back, Mary,” said Kate; “we’ve had walking enough, and shall be awfully tired before we get home.”</p>
			<p>Mary had thought that she would like extremely to go round the house with her old friend and have a hundred incidents of her early life called to her memory. The meeting with Reginald Morton had been altogether pleasant to her. She had often felt how much she would have liked it had the chance of her life enabled her to see more frequently one whom as a child she had so intimately known. But at the moment she lacked the courage to walk boldly across the bridge, and thus to rid herself of Lawrence Twentyman. She had already perceived that Morton’s manner had rendered it impossible that her lover should follow them. “I am afraid I must go home,” she said. It was the very thing she did not want to do⁠—this going home with Lawrence Twentyman; and yet she herself said that she must do it⁠—driven to say so by a nervous dread of showing herself to be fond of the other man’s company.</p>
			<p>“Good afternoon to you,” said Morton very gloomily, waving his hat and stalking across the bridge.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
